Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a fantasy, horror,
mystery film called "1408."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Author Mike Enslin arrives at The Weeping
Beech Inn, tired and drenched from the rain.
The hotel owners eagerly tell him about their
inn's haunted history, hoping that he'd write
about it in his next book.
But Mike just wants to get into his room to
rest.
Finally, in his room, Mike sets down an unlit
cigarette on the nightstand and takes the
basket of mini liquor bottles, which he drinks
throughout the evening.
He looks around the room, checking corners
for any sign of hauntings until he calls it
a night and sleeps.
The next day, Mike records his thoughts of
the inn, commenting more about the hotel's
food rather than any haunted sightings.
Nonetheless, he adds the inn to his next book.
Very few people attend the book signing for
his new book.
While answering a reader's question, Mike
reveals he's never seen a real ghost, disappointing
a fan.
One fan asks him to sign his older book, The
Long Road Home, which he wrote before entering
the occult genre.
The woman asks him if the father and son relationship
in the book was based on real experiences,
but he denies it.
While surfing on the beach, a plane overhead
distracts Mike, causing him to get pushed
into the sea by a massive wave.
He wakes up on the shore, coughing up water.
After retrieving his mail from the post office,
Mike finds most of them are brochures of supposedly
haunted hotels.
Among the mail is a postcard for the Dolphin
Hotel with a warning on the back, saying "Don't
Enter 1408."
Curious, he calls the hotel to book room 1408,
but his booking is turned down even before
he gives a date.
Even when Mike requests to book it on different
dates, the manager denies him and hangs up.
This piques his interest further.
Browsing through old newspaper reports citing
the hotel, he notes two recorded suicides
in the building.
Mike calls his publisher, Sam, who helps him
find a legal loophole to force the hotel to
let him book the room.
Sam, however, worries over Mike returning
to New York for the hotel.
Mike assures him that he'll be in and out
of the city after the job.
In New York, Mike arrives at the exquisite
Dolphin Hotel.
The hotel manager, Gerald Olin, tries to bribe
him out of checking into room 1408.
In Olin's office, he tempts Mike with an expensive
liquor, but he doesn't relent.
Seeing his insistence, Olin warns him that
none of their guests lasted an hour in the
room.
Mike scoffs at it, thinking that it's just
another ploy to oversell the room so he'd
write about it.
But Olin is adamant about not wanting Mike
to stay in the room, as it would end with
him cleaning up the mess after.
During his employment at the Dolphin Hotel,
there have been four deaths in room 1408,
so Olin barred anyone from booking the room
again.
Contrary to Mike's research, there have been
56 total deaths from the same room, including
heart attacks, strokes, and even drowning
in a bowl of soup.
Olin presents Mike with a ledger of all the
deaths in the room's history, permitting him
to write about the room as long as Mike doesn't
stay there.
Thinking that he's about to back off, Olin
offers Mike the expensive liquor bottle, which
Mike puts in his bag.
But Mike decides he still wants to stay in
the room, angering Olin.
He challenges Mike to read the ledger first
while telling the story of the first death
in the room in gruesome detail, creeping out
Mike.
Olin offers Mike to stay in room 1404 instead,
assuring him that the room's layout is the
same, but Mike insists on authenticity.
Olin laughs, noting that his books are abandoned
on bargain shelves only to be read by people
who want cheap thrills.
Unwilling to back down, Mike asserts his belief
that nothing supernatural exists; thus, he's
never been scared of haunted hotels.
Olin finally yields and gives him the keys
to 1408.
As they ride the elevator, Olin explains how
the owners haven't closed the room to pretend
nothing's wrong.
The hotel kept the room tidy, having strict
protocols to prevent accidents during housekeeping.
Still, years ago, a maid gouged her eyes out
with a pair of scissors after getting locked
in the bathroom.
Upon reaching the 14th floor, Olin gives Mike
one last warning before closing the elevator
doors.
As he walks down the hallway, Mike shuffles
through the various crime scene photos on
the ledger.
The elevator dings loudly, breaking him from
his thoughts.
Mike had walked on the floor at a full circle.
He puts the ledger away and makes his way
to the room, passing by a discarded food tray
and finding a woman entering a room while
pulling in a stroller.
Mike finally faces room 1408, unlocking the
door and carefully opening it.
He checks from side to side before stepping
into the threshold.
He switches the light on, finding a normal-looking
room inside.
He slams the door shut before settling in.
He places his unlit cigarette on the ashtray,
a reminder of successfully quitting the habit.
Mike expresses his disappointment on the mundaneness
of the room to his tape recorder.
He takes the bible from the nightstand, then
tosses it aside, uninterested.
Next, he checks the minibar then notices the
thermostat is stuck at eighty degrees Fahrenheit.
Mike continues to describe the room's dull
interior and paintings on the tape.
Later, he opens a window and describes the
view from the room, but bangs his head when
the radio starts playing "We've Only Just
Begun" by The Carpenters.
Two chocolate candies sit on the pillow, which
wasn’t there earlier.
Thinking it's just a trick, he checks the
closet, tub, and cabinet, expecting someone
else in the room but finds no one.
A movement from the vent catches his attention.
Sweating, he calls the front desk to report
the broken thermostat, surprised when the
receptionist agrees to send a repairman.
Unnerved, Mike sits on a chair as he reminisces
on the many hotel rooms he's stayed in for
a book.
Determined to get a story, Mike reminds himself
not to get rattled.
Proceeding with his investigation, he uses
a U.V. lamp to check the many traces of blood
in the room.
Then, Mike finds the painting above the fireplace
skewed.
He realigns the painting, hearing ocean waves
in his mind.
The sudden knock on the door makes him jump.
Mike struggles to open the door for the repairman,
but when it finally opens, the repairman refuses
to set foot inside.
Instead, he tells him how to fix the thermostat
on his own.
Mike successfully fixes the device but finds
the repairman has left.
With the room at a comfortable temperature,
Mike pours himself a drink and sits on the
bed.
The radio at the bedside blares the same song,
making him drop his drink.
Suddenly, the clock on the radio counts down
from sixty minutes.
Mike remembers Olin's warning that no one
lasted in the room for more than an hour.
A ringing sounds in his ear, causing his head
to ache.
He checks the busy street outside the window,
yet he can't hear anything but the ringing.
When he looks back in the room, the window
shuts, trapping his fingers.
Mike gets his hand off the window and heads
to the bathroom to check his wound.
He washes his hand, but the water suddenly
turns hot, scorching him.
He wraps his wounded hand with a handkerchief
then jumps when the radio blares The Carpenters
song again.
Even after the radio is unplugged, it continues
to countdown.
Panicked from the events, he rushes to the
ringing phone from the living room.
Mike demands to be taken to the hospital,
but the receptionist transfers him to Olin
instead.
While waiting to speak to Olin, Mike looks
around as if expecting another threat.
The line drops suddenly, so he makes his way
out the door.
But the key breaks in the lock, with the other
end disappearing to the other side.
Mike tries to force the door open, but the
doorknob breaks as well.
Through the peephole, he finds green eyes
staring back at him.
Finding no hope at the door, Mike heads to
the window and yells for help.
He calls a man's attention from the building
across the street, but the man only copies
his movements.
Mike grabs a lamp to illuminate the man, revealing
that it's also him wearing black clothes.
Behind the other Mike, a woman attacks him
with a hammer.
Mike turns, finding the same woman lunging
at him.
He falls into a corner, but suddenly, the
woman disappears.
Mike checks back to the window, and the other
Mike is gone.
He picks up the lamp and throws it, hoping
that someone will notice it.
Instead, the lamp sizzles and disappears.
Frustrated, he hangs his head low, believing
he's gone crazy.
A girl's voice calls him inside the room.
Mike fumbles around, collapsing into a corner,
waiting for whatever comes next.
Aggravated, he scolds himself for losing focus
and notes the powers of suggestion on his
recorder.
Then, he spots what looks like a spycam in
the vent.
Mike shouts at the vent, accusing that Olin
spiked his liquor, causing hallucinations.
The television turns on, showing a family
video of himself, his estranged wife, Lily,
and their daughter, Katie.
The happy memory lures Mike closer, bringing
him to tears as he thinks of the family he
lost.
He touches the T.V. mournfully before it shuts
off.
Mike returns to the liquor bottle, thinking
if it can make him hallucinate his daughter
again.
Suddenly, a man appears in the middle of the
room, climbing over the window before jumping
off.
Then, a woman in a red and green dress in
the living room does the same.
Next, he hears the sound of a baby crying
from the next room.
He bangs on the wall, begging the mother he
saw earlier for help.
The baby wails louder until the sound echoes
in his head, bringing him to his knees.
Mike picks up a chair and throws it against
the wall, making the wailing stop.
Mike gets up, seeing the light pouring from
the bathroom.
From inside, a man in a wheelchair laments
over his life.
Mike recognizes his father, kneeling before
him.
His father warns him that he will end up just
like him.
Mike snaps out of the illusion, trying to
make sense of the situation.
A whirring sound distracts him, leading him
to the broken wall with blood pouring from
the cracks.
Mike opens a window and checks the street
below, wondering if he can't die in a nightmare.
Deciding on a more logical approach, he checks
the hotel's map behind the front door, plotting
his escape through the window.
Gathering his courage, he climbs onto the
ledge and records a message on his tape first
that if he slips and falls, it was an accident
and not the room's influence.
Inch by inch, Mike makes his way toward the
next room's window.
He counts his steps to calm himself, ignoring
the sounds of traffic below.
But when he looks forward, there are no other
windows on the building aside from room 1408's.
After nearly slipping on the ledge, he struggles
back to the window where the woman in red
and green surprises him.
Mike falls but grabs ahold of the ledge, watching
the woman throw herself out of the building.
Mike climbs back inside the room, just before
the window closes on its own.
Exhausted, Mike gets up and notices the hotel
map changed on the front door.
Instead of the hotel floor's layout, he only
sees room 1408 with the rest of the floor
blacked out.
He looks into the peephole and sees a brick
wall outside his door.
An eerie blue glow fills the room.
The windows in the living room are bricked
up while the window from the bedroom no longer
exists.
Driven insane, Mike listens to his tape recording
in hopes of bringing back some sense.
When he hears himself say that the bedroom
has no window, he yelps.
The sound of footsteps and an announcement
diverts his attention to the living room,
where he finds himself with his wife Lily
in the doctor's office.
The couple struggles to accept Katie's cancer
diagnosis.
When he calls Katie, the lights suddenly go
out.
The room is now covered in a red hue.
Katie's voice begs him for help while Mike
checks around, reaching for the light switch.
With the lights on, he spots the armed woman
behind him from the mirror.
He turns around, but she's not there.
In the living room, the thermostat is broken
again, this time stuck at 40 degrees Fahrenheit.
He takes his coat from his bag and checks
his laptop.
Mike contacts Lily via a video call, but his
face is distorted on the screen.
When Lily hears that he's in the Dolphin hotel,
she gets angry at him for not contacting her
despite being in the city, not noticing the
urgency in his tone.
Suddenly, the fire sprinklers spray water,
destroying his laptop.
The water causes all the electronics inside
to spark until Mike breaks it.
Mike starts undoing the screws on the vent
where he climbs to escape.
Hearing the baby's cries, he follows it and
begs the mother for help.
The woman looks up, staring coldly at him.
It's Lily.
Frightened, Mike crawls forward and watches
another memory where his father begs Mike
to stay with his wife after Katie's death.
After his other self leaves, his father looks
straight at him, making him jump inside the
vent.
The vent stretches further, trapping Mike
in a loop until he finds the dead body of
one of the hotel room's victims.
The body wakes up and chases after him.
When Mike loses sight of it, he crawls as
quietly as he can, checking every corner before
moving.
The corpse finds him and grabs him by the
leg.
He kicks its skull to escape and falls back
into the room.
Tired and confused, Mike opens the minibar
for a drink but instead finds a miniature
version of Olin's office with the hotel manager
mocking him.
Angered, Mike attacks the fridge, which now
returns to normal.
Shaking in fury and fright, Mike grabs the
liquor and the bible in hopes of being saved.
But when he flips through the pages, it's
blank.
On the other side, he sees a vision of him
and Lily joining Katie in her hospital bed.
Lily encourages Katie about the afterlife,
but Mike is hesitant to believe in it.
After Katie died, Mike blames Lily for distracting
Katie with stories about heaven.
The fax machine rings in the room.
Mike opens it and sees a dress come out of
the machine.
The room's temperature drops to below zero.
He burns the crime scene photos in the middle
of the living room to warm up.
As he's shivering by the fire, his laptop
switches on.
Lily is still on the call, confirming that
the cops are in the hotel.
But the police are already in 1408, and it's
empty.
Feeling hopeless, he checks the clock in the
bedroom.
He has less than fifteen minutes left.
Lily promises to see him at the hotel, but
Mike refuses, not wanting to put her in danger.
Suddenly, his voice sounds from the laptop.
Another Mike appears on the screen, telling
Lily to hurry up and meet him in the room.
Mike tries to stop Lily, but she only sees
the other Mike, who winks at the camera once
Lily ends the call.
The room erupts in chaos.
The ceiling and floor explode, bursting the
pipes.
The paintings in the room change into horrible
violent scenes with voices crying for help.
Mike reaches for the ship painting, but a
wave of water pours in, throwing him against
the wall.
Water fills up the room, forcing Mike to sink
below.
Fighting for his life, he swims back to the
surface, finding himself back on the beach
where he nearly drowned while surfing.
Mike wakes up in the hospital, seeing Lily
by his side.
Being his next of kin, Lily was called in
after he was rushed to the hospital for nearly
drowning in the beach.
Mike, dazed and in disbelief, recounts the
events in the Dolphin hotel.
Lily claims that there is no such hotel in
New York.
The days continue where he and Lily reconcile.
During a dinner date, Mike spots the woman
who jumped off from 1408 in the restaurant.
He snaps out of the vision, realizing that
he was only hallucinating.
Believing that the room was just a nightmare,
he shares the story with Lily, who suggests
he writes about it.
Days later, Mike collects his mail from the
post office and finds the same mail he received
the day he discovered the Dolphin hotel.
But the postcard for the hotel is missing.
Confused, he checks the newspaper clippings
where he learned more about the hotel's history,
but they've changed.
To find some closure, he writes a book about
room 1408.
Once he's done, he prepares his manuscript
and visits his father from the elderly home.
But his father's condition is worse, staring
blankly into space and not even noticing him.
Guilty over how he treated his father, Mike
apologizes.
Mike rushes to the post office to send the
manuscript, but the clerk says they're closed.
When the clerk turns around, he recognizes
the man from the hotel.
The other workers break down the post office,
revealing the walls and ceiling of room 1408.
The world spins before Mike, his life slipping
away as he realizes that he's still in the
ruins of the room.
Back in the room, the minifridge opens behind
him.
Instead of drinks, however, he finds Katie's
coffin burning inside.
Mike's mind fractures, unable to grasp how
he's back.
Behind him, a white door appears.
Tired of being played at, Mike knocks on the
door, ready to face whatever's on the other
side, but it disappears.
Katie appears in the room, asking him for
help.
Despite knowing that it's not real, Mike falls
to his knees and embraces her.
As he promises not to let her go, Katie's
body goes limp.
The radio blares the song again, and Katie's
body crumbles in Mike's arms.
Mike desperately tries to put her back together,
but it's no use.
Enraged, Mike breaks everything he could get
his hands on, throwing furniture all over
the room until he collapses.
The song continues to play, with less than
ten seconds left on the clock.
Mike turns away as the clock turns to zero.
He wakes up, and the room is back to its pristine
condition.
The clock reverts to sixty minutes on the
nightstand.
The phone rings and a receptionist tells him
the hour will repeat until he takes their
express checkout system.
In the middle of the bedroom hangs a noose
for him.
The events begin to make sense: all the previous
victims were driven to insanity and suicide
like what the room is doing to him.
The room continues to tempt him with his only
way out of the room.
But Mike refuses to give in.
He tells the receptionist that he's not checking
out.
The receptionist informs him that Lily is
in the hotel and will arrive at the room in
five minutes.
Mike denies playing the room's games anymore.
Realizing that he's led a selfish life, Mike
refuses to die as so.
He turns the liquor bottle into a molotov
cocktail and sets the bedroom ablaze, taking
the room down with him.
Finding some relief, Mike lights his cigarette
and relaxes on the armchair.
Outside, the hotel guests evacuate as the
fire alarm blares.
Stuck in traffic, Lily rushes to the hotel
on foot.
In the room, Mike listens to the hotel's futile
attempt to save itself.
No longer fearing the evil inside, Mike makes
a recording, saying his final thoughts about
the hotel.
He throws the ashtray out the window, causing
the room to explode.
He lies on the floor, laughing as the room
is defeated.
Days later, Lily and Sam attend Mike's funeral.
Lily takes comfort that he and Katie are finally
together.
After the funeral, Olin hands Lily a box of
Mike's belongings from the hotel.
But Lily refuses, not wanting to remember
Mike by his writing.
Olin assures her, however, that Mike did not
die in vain.
After what he did to the room, it won't be
reopened again.
When Lily and Sam leave, Olin heads back to
his car and opens the box, listening to Mike's
recording.
While listening to Mike's reunion with Katie's
ghost, Olin hears another girl behind the
car.
He checks the rearview mirror and sees Mike's
burnt body.
It disappears instantly, allowing Olin to
watch the little girl outside reunite with
her father.
Back in the hotel, Mike's ghost smokes in
the ruined room.
Katie calls him inside, and he goes to her,
disappearing as he walks.